
Marathon Runner Game Documentation

Overview
Marathon Runner is a 2D side-scrolling game where players take on the role of a character striving to survive in a world filled with obstacles. Developed in Python and utilizing the Pygame library, players must deftly navigate their avatar, collect points, and avoid being overtaken by a rival runner, all while facing off against menacing foes.

Installation
To play Marathon Runner, ensure that Python and Pygame are installed on your system. Follow these steps to get the game up and running:

1. Install Python: Download and install Python from the official Python website (https://www.python.org/downloads/).

2. Install Pygame: Execute the following command in your terminal or command prompt:

pip install pygame

3. Download the Game: Acquire the game by downloading MarathonRunner.zip, then extract its contents to a directory of your choosing.

4. Run the Game: Within the game directory, execute the game via terminal or command prompt:

python marathon_runner.py

Controls
Move Left: Press the Left Arrow or 'A' key.
Move Right: Press the Right Arrow or 'D' key.
Jump: Hit the Spacebar.
Shoot: Press the 'E' key to launch fireballs at enemies.

How to Play
Avoid zombies and fiery obstacles using the game controls.
Collect coins to earn points, aiming to achieve a minimum score of 30.
The player starts with 3 lives, depicted by hearts on the screen's upper edge.
The game concludes if the persistent runner catches up or if all lives are lost.

Game Mechanics
The game adopts an infinite runner style with randomly generated obstacles.
Zombies appear sporadically, advancing toward the player.
Fire hazards spawn in random positions but remain static.
Coins must be gathered by making contact with them as they materialize in various positions.

Scoring
Accumulate points by collecting coins, with each coin contributing one point to the overall score.
While avoiding coins does not deduct points, part of the challenge is to collect as many as possible.

Graphics
Characters, obstacles, and the environment are represented through pixel art.
Character and obstacle sprites feature animations.

Sounds
The background track "b6c47dcdd5bd8ea" sets the mood with continuous play.
Sound effects include actions such as jumping, firing projectiles, coin collection, and losing a life.

Ending the Game
You can exit the game anytime by closing the window.
The game automatically ends if the player loses all lives or is caught by the rival runner.

Credits
Game Design and Development: Tomiris and Bexultan
Graphics: Dinmukhamed, Ersultan
Music and Sound Effects: [the music is not origina(b6c47dcdd5bd8ea.mp3)]

License
Marathon Runner is provided under the MIT License (https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). Details can be found in the LICENSE file included with the game.
